---
title: The art and science of collecting game metadata
description: Finding the right APIs for game.
permalink: posts/{{ title | slug }}/index.html
date: '2024-11-21'
tags: [web-dev, apis]
---

I never had a real gaming PC, switched consoles, and generally have just a few weeks (or couple of months) per year where I actually spend my free time playing games.

One other hobby I have, which lasts almost the whole year, is to read game reviews, figuring out an easy way to play these games without buying additional hardware, and generally following the gaming scene.

### The beginning

I started a few years ago, where I manually went through the Top 100 games of the year posts of [RockPaperShotgun](https://rockpapershotgun.com), [Eurogamer](https://eurogamer.net), [PCGamer](https://pcgamer.com) and others, wrote down the games I am most interested in, and created a note in my note taking system at the time.

I also added these games to my Wishlist in Steam, but this list would just grow out of porportion, and without any note, I forgot why I bookmarked them in the first place.

The next issue is that my daily driver was, and is, a MacBook. I hae a Linux machine laying around, but never for gaming. I used to have a SteamDeck for a while, and I am an on and off user of GeForce Now, the cloud gaming platform.

Needless to say, just whishlisting games on Steam doesn't cut it. Coming by a game I want to play needs a _SYSTEM_, which answers the following questions:

* Can I play this on my Mac?
* If not, can I access it on GeForce Now?
* Is SteamDeck an option?
* Or is it available on the Nintendo Switch?

### SystemV2

What better next step then to collect this information than in a spreadsheet. Manually writing down each game I would like to play, and a column for each system and its availability.

This is very tedious, but games don't come out every few hours, so there is no need to working on it every week. Or is it? The initial work is still quite tedious. Visiting multiple places (Nintendo Store, Steam Store, checking GeForce Now etc.) not just once, but also every few months to check if the status might have changed. Maybe 6 months later, the game is supported by a different platform?

### The first automation

My first try


### Scraping + API


### Missing info
